npm-packages/docs/docs/ai/convex-mcp-server.mdx, before:

---
title: "Convex MCP Server"
sidebar_position: 300
description: "Convex MCP server"
---

The Convex
[Model Context Protocol](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol)
(MCP) server provides several tools that allow AI agents to interact with your
Convex deployment.

## Setup

Add the following command to your MCP servers configuration:

`npx -y convex@latest mcp start`

See editor specific instructions:

- [Cursor](/ai/using-cursor.mdx#setup-the-convex-mcp-server)
- [Windsurf](/ai/using-windsurf.mdx#setup-the-convex-mcp-server)
- [VS Code](/ai/using-github-copilot.mdx#setup-the-convex-mcp-server)
- Claude Code: add the MCP server and test with
  ```bash
  claude mcp add-json convex '{"type":"stdio","command":"npx","args":["convex","mcp","start"]}'
  claude mcp get convex
  ```

## Available Tools

### Deployment Tools

- **`status`**: Queries available deployments and returns a deployment selector
  that can be used with other tools. This is typically the first tool you'll use
  to find your Convex deployment.

### Table Tools

- **`tables`**: Lists all tables in a deployment along with their:

  - Declared schemas (if present)
  - Inferred schemas (automatically tracked by Convex)
  - Table names and metadata

- **`data`**: Allows pagination through documents in a specified table.

- **`runOneoffQuery`**: Enables writing and executing sandboxed JavaScript
  queries against your deployment's data. These queries are read-only and cannot
  modify the database.

### Function Tools

- **`functionSpec`**: Provides metadata about all deployed functions, including:

  - Function types
  - Visibility settings
  - Interface specifications

- **`run`**: Executes deployed Convex functions with provided arguments.

- **`logs`**: Fetches a chunk of recent function execution log entries, similar
  to `npx convex logs` but as structured objects.

### Environment Variable Tools

- **`envList`**: Lists all environment variables for a deployment
- **`envGet`**: Retrieves the value of a specific environment variable
- **`envSet`**: Sets a new environment variable or updates an existing one
- **`envRemove`**: Removes an environment variable from the deployment

[Read more about how to use the Convex MCP Server](https://stack.convex.dev/convex-mcp-server)

Commit message:

updated mcp instructions and deeplink (#39958)
Used the cursor "deep link" generator (https://docs.cursor.com/en/tools/developers#markdown) to create a handy link folks can use to install the Convex MCP.

Also updated some of the manual MCP install instructions for cursor.

GitOrigin-RevId: 0c96ab9ea243815019d3acea660caab59fefb7ba

npm-packages/docs/docs/ai/convex-mcp-server.mdx, after:

---
title: "Convex MCP Server"
sidebar_position: 300
description: "Convex MCP server"
---

The Convex
[Model Context Protocol](https://docs.cursor.com/context/model-context-protocol)
(MCP) server provides several tools that allow AI agents to interact with your
Convex deployment.

## Setup

Add the following command to your MCP servers configuration:

`npx -y convex@latest mcp start`

For Cursor you can use this quick link to install:

[![Install MCP Server](https://cursor.com/deeplink/mcp-install-dark.svg)](https://cursor.com/en/install-mcp?name=convex&config=eyJjb21tYW5kIjoibnB4IC15IGNvbnZleEBsYXRlc3QgbWNwIHN0YXJ0In0%3D)

or see editor specific instructions:

- [Cursor](/ai/using-cursor.mdx#setup-the-convex-mcp-server)
- [Windsurf](/ai/using-windsurf.mdx#setup-the-convex-mcp-server)
- [VS Code](/ai/using-github-copilot.mdx#setup-the-convex-mcp-server)
- Claude Code: add the MCP server and test with
  ```bash
  claude mcp add-json convex '{"type":"stdio","command":"npx","args":["convex","mcp","start"]}'
  claude mcp get convex
  ```

## Available Tools

### Deployment Tools

- **`status`**: Queries available deployments and returns a deployment selector
  that can be used with other tools. This is typically the first tool you'll use
  to find your Convex deployment.

### Table Tools

- **`tables`**: Lists all tables in a deployment along with their:

  - Declared schemas (if present)
  - Inferred schemas (automatically tracked by Convex)
  - Table names and metadata

- **`data`**: Allows pagination through documents in a specified table.

- **`runOneoffQuery`**: Enables writing and executing sandboxed JavaScript
  queries against your deployment's data. These queries are read-only and cannot
  modify the database.

### Function Tools

- **`functionSpec`**: Provides metadata about all deployed functions, including:

  - Function types
  - Visibility settings
  - Interface specifications

- **`run`**: Executes deployed Convex functions with provided arguments.

- **`logs`**: Fetches a chunk of recent function execution log entries, similar
  to `npx convex logs` but as structured objects.

### Environment Variable Tools

- **`envList`**: Lists all environment variables for a deployment
- **`envGet`**: Retrieves the value of a specific environment variable
- **`envSet`**: Sets a new environment variable or updates an existing one
- **`envRemove`**: Removes an environment variable from the deployment

[Read more about how to use the Convex MCP Server](https://stack.convex.dev/convex-mcp-server)
