npm-packages/docs/docs/functions/debugging.mdx, before:

---
title: Debugging
sidebar_position: 100
---

Debugging is the process of figuring out why your code isn't behaving as you
expect.

## Debugging during development

During development the built-in `console` API allows you to understand what's
going on inside your functions:

```ts title="convex/myFunctions.ts"
import { mutation } from "./_generated/server";
import { v } from "convex/values";

export const mutateSomething = mutation({
  args: { a: v.number(), b: v.number() },
  handler: (_, args) => {
    console.log("Received args", args);
    // ...
  },
});
```

The following methods are available in the
[default Convex runtime](/docs/functions/runtimes.mdx#default-convex-runtime):

- Logging values, with a specified severity level:
  - `console.log`
  - `console.info`
  - `console.warn`
  - `console.error`
  - `console.debug`
- Logging with a stack trace:
  - [`console.trace`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console/trace_static)
- Measuring execution time:
  - [`console.time`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console/time_static)
  - [`console.timeLog`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console/timelog_static)
  - [`console.timeEnd`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console/timeend_static)

The Convex backend also automatically logs all successful function executions
and all errors thrown by your functions.

You can view these logs:

1. When using the [`ConvexReactClient`](/docs/client/react.mdx), in your browser
   developer tools console pane. The logs are sent from your dev deployment to
   your client, and the client logs them to the browser. Production deployments
   [**do not** send logs to the client](/docs/functions/error-handling/error-handling.mdx#differences-in-error-reporting-between-dev-and-prod).
2. In your Convex dashboard on the
   [Logs page](/docs/dashboard/deployments/logs.md).
3. In your terminal by running
   [`npx convex logs`](/docs/cli.md#tail-deployment-logs) or
   `npx convex dev --tail-logs`.

### Using a debugger

You can exercise your functions from tests, in which case you can add
`debugger;` statements and step through your code. See
[Testing](/docs/testing/convex-test.mdx#debugging-tests).

## Debugging in production

When debugging an issue in production your options are:

1. Leverage existing logging
2. Add more logging and deploy a new version of your backend to production

Convex backend currently only preserves a limited number of logs, and logs can
be erased at any time when the Convex team performs internal maintenance and
upgrades. You should therefore set up
[log streaming and error reporting](/docs/production/integrations/integrations.mdx)
integrations to enable your team easy access to historical logs and additional
information logged by your client.

## Finding relevant logs by Request ID

To find the appropriate logs for an error you or your users experience, Convex
includes a Request ID in all exception messages in both dev and prod in this
format: `[Request ID: <request_id>]`.

You can copy and paste a Request ID into your Convex dashboard to view the logs
for functions started by that request. See the
[Dashboard logs page](/docs/dashboard/deployments/logs.md#filter-logs) for
details.

{/* TODO: Document how to filter by Request ID in Datadog/Axiom */}

Commit message:

feat: enable logs by default in convex dev (#34898)
Added three-mode logging system to tail logs by default but also allow seeing deploy status and errors

- `--tail-logs always` - Show all logs continuously
- `--tail-logs pause-on-deploy` (default) - Pause logs during deploys
- `--tail-logs disable` - No logs shown

Updated documentation with new logging modes and examples

GitOrigin-RevId: e5bb411c262abd91df09eef84e9204ed48d0ebf7

npm-packages/docs/docs/functions/debugging.mdx, after:

---
title: Debugging
sidebar_position: 100
---

Debugging is the process of figuring out why your code isn't behaving as you
expect.

## Debugging during development

During development the built-in `console` API allows you to understand what's
going on inside your functions:

```ts title="convex/myFunctions.ts"
import { mutation } from "./_generated/server";
import { v } from "convex/values";

export const mutateSomething = mutation({
  args: { a: v.number(), b: v.number() },
  handler: (_, args) => {
    console.log("Received args", args);
    // ...
  },
});
```

The following methods are available in the
[default Convex runtime](/docs/functions/runtimes.mdx#default-convex-runtime):

- Logging values, with a specified severity level:
  - `console.log`
  - `console.info`
  - `console.warn`
  - `console.error`
  - `console.debug`
- Logging with a stack trace:
  - [`console.trace`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console/trace_static)
- Measuring execution time:
  - [`console.time`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console/time_static)
  - [`console.timeLog`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console/timelog_static)
  - [`console.timeEnd`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/console/timeend_static)

The Convex backend also automatically logs all successful function executions
and all errors thrown by your functions.

You can view these logs:

1. When using the [`ConvexReactClient`](/docs/client/react.mdx), in your browser
   developer tools console pane. The logs are sent from your dev deployment to
   your client, and the client logs them to the browser. Production deployments
   [**do not** send logs to the client](/docs/functions/error-handling/error-handling.mdx#differences-in-error-reporting-between-dev-and-prod).
2. In your Convex dashboard on the
   [Logs page](/docs/dashboard/deployments/logs.md).
3. In your terminal with [`npx convex dev`](/docs/cli.md#tail-deployment-logs)
   during development or [`npx convex logs`](/docs/cli.md#tail-deployment-logs),
   which only prints logs.

### Using a debugger

You can exercise your functions from tests, in which case you can add
`debugger;` statements and step through your code. See
[Testing](/docs/testing/convex-test.mdx#debugging-tests).

## Debugging in production

When debugging an issue in production your options are:

1. Leverage existing logging
2. Add more logging and deploy a new version of your backend to production

Convex backend currently only preserves a limited number of logs, and logs can
be erased at any time when the Convex team performs internal maintenance and
upgrades. You should therefore set up
[log streaming and error reporting](/docs/production/integrations/integrations.mdx)
integrations to enable your team easy access to historical logs and additional
information logged by your client.

## Finding relevant logs by Request ID

To find the appropriate logs for an error you or your users experience, Convex
includes a Request ID in all exception messages in both dev and prod in this
format: `[Request ID: <request_id>]`.

You can copy and paste a Request ID into your Convex dashboard to view the logs
for functions started by that request. See the
[Dashboard logs page](/docs/dashboard/deployments/logs.md#filter-logs) for
details.

{/* TODO: Document how to filter by Request ID in Datadog/Axiom */}
