npm-packages/docs/docs/functions/runtimes.mdx, before:

---
title: Runtimes
sidebar_position: 80
description:
  "Learn the differences between the Convex and Node.js runtimes for functions"
---

# Runtimes

Convex functions can run in two runtimes:

- Default [Convex runtime](#default-convex-runtime)
- Opt-in [Node.js runtime](#nodejs-runtime)

## Default Convex runtime

All Convex backend functions are written in JavaScript or TypeScript. By default
all functions run in a custom JavaScript runtime very similar to the
[Cloudflare Workers runtime](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloud-computing-without-containers/)
with access to most
[web standard globals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects).

The default runtime has many advantages including:

- **No cold starts**. The runtime is always up, and ready to handle any function
  at a moments notice.
- **Latest web JavaScript standards**. The runtime is based on V8 that also
  powers Google Chrome. This ensures it provides an interface very similar to
  your frontend code, allowing further simplification to your code.
- **Low overhead access to your data**. The runtime is designed to have low
  overhead access to your data via query & mutation functions, allowing you to
  access your database via a simple
  [JavaScript interface](/database/reading-data/reading-data.mdx).

### Supported APIs

The default runtime supports most npm libraries that work in the browser,
[Deno](https://deno.com/), and
[Cloudflare workers](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/). If your
library isn't supported, you can use an action with the
[Node.js runtime](#nodejs-runtime), or reach out in
[Discord](https://convex.dev/community). We are improving support all the time.

#### Network APIs

- [Blob](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Blob)
- [Event](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event)
- [EventTarget](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventTarget)
- [fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch) — in
  [Actions](#actions) only
- [File](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/File)
- [FormData](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FormData)
- [Headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Headers)
- [Request](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request)
- [Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response)

#### Encoding APIs

- [TextDecoder](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TextDecoder)
- [TextEncoder](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TextEncoder)
- [atob](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowBase64/atob)
- [btoa](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowBase64/btoa)

#### Web Stream APIs

- [ReadableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream)
- [ReadableStreamBYOBReader](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStreamBYOBReader)
- [ReadableStreamDefaultReader](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStreamDefaultReader)
- [TransformStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TransformStream)
- [WritableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WritableStream)
- [WritableStreamDefaultWriter](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WritableStreamDefaultWriter)

#### Web Crypto APIs

- [crypto](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API)
- [CryptoKey](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CryptoKey)
- [SubtleCrypto](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto)

### Restrictions on queries and mutations

Query and mutation functions are further **restricted by the runtime to be
[deterministic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_algorithm)**. This
allows Convex to automatically retry them by the system as necessary.

Determinism means that no matter how many times your function is run, as long as
it is given the same arguments, it will have identical side effects and return
the same value.

You don't have to think all that much about maintaining these properties of
determinism when you write your Convex functions. Convex will provide helpful
error messages as you go, so you can't *accidentally* do something forbidden.

#### Using randomness and time in queries and mutations

Convex provides a "seeded" strong pseudo-random number generator
at `Math.random()` so that it can guarantee the determinism of your function.
The random number generator's seed is an implicit parameter to your function.
Multiple calls to `Math.random()` in one function call will return different
random values. Note that Convex does not reevaluate the Javascript modules on
every function run, so a call to `Math.random()` stored in a global variable
will not change between function runs.

To ensure the logic within your function is reproducible, the system time used
globally (outside of any function) is "frozen" at deploy time, while the system
time during Convex function execution is "frozen" when the function
begins. `Date.now()` will return the same result for the entirety of your
function's execution. For example,

```javascript
const globalRand = Math.random(); // `globalRand` does not change between runs.
const globalNow = Date.now(); // `globalNow` is the time when Convex functions were deployed.

export const updateSomething = mutation({
  args: {},
  handler: () => {
    const now1 = Date.now(); // `now1` is the time when the function execution started.
    const rand1 = Math.random(); // `rand1` has a new value for each function run.
    // implementation
    const now2 = Date.now(); // `now2` === `now1`
    const rand2 = Math.random(); // `rand1` !== `rand2`
  },
});
```

### Actions

Actions are unrestricted by the same rules of determinism as query and mutation
functions. Notably actions are allowed to call third-party HTTP endpoints via
the browser-standard
[`fetch`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) function.

By default actions also run in Convex’s custom JavaScript runtime with all of
its advantages including no cold starts and a browser-like API environment. They
can also live in the same file as your query and mutation functions.

## Node.js runtime

Some JavaScript and TypeScript libraries use features that are not included in
the default Convex runtime. This is why Convex actions provide an escape hatch
to [Node.js 18](https://nodejs.org/en/about) via the `"use node"` directive at
the top of a file that contains your action.
[Learn more](/functions/actions.mdx#choosing-the-runtime-use-node).

Use of the Node.js environment is restricted to **action functions only**. If
you want to use a library designed for Node.js and interact with the Convex
database, you need to call the Node.js library from an action, and use
[`runQuery`](/functions/actions.mdx#action-context) or
[`runMutation`](/functions/actions.mdx#action-context) helper to call a query or
mutation.

Every `.ts` and `.js` file in the convex directory
[is bundled](/functions/bundling.mdx) either for the default Convex JavaScript
runtime or Node.js, along with any code it imports.

Files with the `"use node"` directive should not contain any Convex queries or
mutations since they cannot be run in the Node.js runtime. Additionally, files
without the `"use node"` directive should not import any files with the
`"use node"` directive. Files that contain no Convex functions, like a
`convex/utils.ts` file, also need the "use node" directive if they use
Node.js-specific libraries.

Note that argument size limits are lower (5MiB instead of 16MiB).

Commit message:

dev --once --debug-node-apis (#35201)
Flag to bundle non-'use node' entry points one at a time in order to provide an import trace if they use Node.js APIs.

If this works well it could run automatically on relevant bundler errors.

GitOrigin-RevId: bfbdc200f0f7a7246137671513f6b60e6858aee6

npm-packages/docs/docs/functions/runtimes.mdx, after:

---
title: Runtimes
sidebar_position: 80
description:
  "Learn the differences between the Convex and Node.js runtimes for functions"
---

# Runtimes

Convex functions can run in two runtimes:

- Default [Convex runtime](#default-convex-runtime)
- Opt-in [Node.js runtime](#nodejs-runtime)

## Default Convex runtime

All Convex backend functions are written in JavaScript or TypeScript. By default
all functions run in a custom JavaScript runtime very similar to the
[Cloudflare Workers runtime](https://blog.cloudflare.com/cloud-computing-without-containers/)
with access to most
[web standard globals](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects).

The default runtime has many advantages including:

- **No cold starts**. The runtime is always up, and ready to handle any function
  at a moments notice.
- **Latest web JavaScript standards**. The runtime is based on V8 that also
  powers Google Chrome. This ensures it provides an interface very similar to
  your frontend code, allowing further simplification to your code.
- **Low overhead access to your data**. The runtime is designed to have low
  overhead access to your data via query & mutation functions, allowing you to
  access your database via a simple
  [JavaScript interface](/database/reading-data/reading-data.mdx).

### Supported APIs

The default runtime supports most npm libraries that work in the browser,
[Deno](https://deno.com/), and
[Cloudflare workers](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/). If your
library isn't supported, you can use an action with the
[Node.js runtime](#nodejs-runtime), or reach out in
[Discord](https://convex.dev/community). We are improving support all the time.

#### Network APIs

- [Blob](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Blob)
- [Event](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event)
- [EventTarget](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/EventTarget)
- [fetch](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/fetch) — in
  [Actions](#actions) only
- [File](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/File)
- [FormData](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/FormData)
- [Headers](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Headers)
- [Request](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Request)
- [Response](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Response)

#### Encoding APIs

- [TextDecoder](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TextDecoder)
- [TextEncoder](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TextEncoder)
- [atob](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowBase64/atob)
- [btoa](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WindowBase64/btoa)

#### Web Stream APIs

- [ReadableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStream)
- [ReadableStreamBYOBReader](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStreamBYOBReader)
- [ReadableStreamDefaultReader](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ReadableStreamDefaultReader)
- [TransformStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TransformStream)
- [WritableStream](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WritableStream)
- [WritableStreamDefaultWriter](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WritableStreamDefaultWriter)

#### Web Crypto APIs

- [crypto](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API)
- [CryptoKey](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/CryptoKey)
- [SubtleCrypto](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/SubtleCrypto)

### Restrictions on queries and mutations

Query and mutation functions are further **restricted by the runtime to be
[deterministic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_algorithm)**. This
allows Convex to automatically retry them by the system as necessary.

Determinism means that no matter how many times your function is run, as long as
it is given the same arguments, it will have identical side effects and return
the same value.

You don't have to think all that much about maintaining these properties of
determinism when you write your Convex functions. Convex will provide helpful
error messages as you go, so you can't *accidentally* do something forbidden.

#### Using randomness and time in queries and mutations

Convex provides a "seeded" strong pseudo-random number generator
at `Math.random()` so that it can guarantee the determinism of your function.
The random number generator's seed is an implicit parameter to your function.
Multiple calls to `Math.random()` in one function call will return different
random values. Note that Convex does not reevaluate the Javascript modules on
every function run, so a call to `Math.random()` stored in a global variable
will not change between function runs.

To ensure the logic within your function is reproducible, the system time used
globally (outside of any function) is "frozen" at deploy time, while the system
time during Convex function execution is "frozen" when the function
begins. `Date.now()` will return the same result for the entirety of your
function's execution. For example,

```javascript
const globalRand = Math.random(); // `globalRand` does not change between runs.
const globalNow = Date.now(); // `globalNow` is the time when Convex functions were deployed.

export const updateSomething = mutation({
  args: {},
  handler: () => {
    const now1 = Date.now(); // `now1` is the time when the function execution started.
    const rand1 = Math.random(); // `rand1` has a new value for each function run.
    // implementation
    const now2 = Date.now(); // `now2` === `now1`
    const rand2 = Math.random(); // `rand1` !== `rand2`
  },
});
```

### Actions

Actions are unrestricted by the same rules of determinism as query and mutation
functions. Notably actions are allowed to call third-party HTTP endpoints via
the browser-standard
[`fetch`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Fetch_API) function.

By default actions also run in Convex’s custom JavaScript runtime with all of
its advantages including no cold starts and a browser-like API environment. They
can also live in the same file as your query and mutation functions.

## Node.js runtime

Some JavaScript and TypeScript libraries use features that are not included in
the default Convex runtime. Convex actions provide an escape hatch to
[Node.js 18](https://nodejs.org/en/about) via the `"use node"` directive at the
top of a file that contains your action.
[Learn more](/functions/actions.mdx#choosing-the-runtime-use-node).

Use of the Node.js environment is restricted to **action functions only**. If
you want to use a library designed for Node.js and interact with the Convex
database, you need to call the Node.js library from an action, and use
[`runQuery`](/functions/actions.mdx#action-context) or
[`runMutation`](/functions/actions.mdx#action-context) helper to call a query or
mutation.

Every `.ts` and `.js` file in the convex directory
[is bundled](/functions/bundling.mdx) either for the default Convex JavaScript
runtime or Node.js, along with any code it imports.

Files with the `"use node"` directive should not contain any Convex queries or
mutations since they cannot be run in the Node.js runtime. Additionally, files
without the `"use node"` directive should not import any files with the
`"use node"` directive. Files that contain no Convex functions, like a
`convex/utils.ts` file, also need the "use node" directive if they use
Node.js-specific libraries.

If you encounter bundling errors about Node.js-specific imports like `fs` /
`node:fs` not being available when deploying convex functions, running
`npx convex dev --once --debug-node-apis` gives more information about these. It
uses a slower bundling method to track the train of imports, narrowing down
which import is responsible for the error.

Note that argument size limits are lower (5MiB instead of 16MiB).
