npm-packages/docs/docs/ai.mdx, before:

---
title: AI Code Generation
hide_table_of_contents: true
description: "How to use AI code generation effectively with Convex"
---

<CardLink
  className="convex-hero-card"
  item={{
    href: "https://chef.convex.dev",
    label: "Prompt to build an app with Convex Chef",
  }}
/>

Convex is designed around a small set of composable abstractions with strong
guarantees that result in code that is not only faster to write, it’s easier to
read and maintain, whether written by a team member or an LLM. Key features make
sure you get bug-free AI generated code:

1. **Queries are Just TypeScript** Your database queries are pure TypeScript
   functions with end-to-end type safety and IDE support. This means AI can
   generate database code using the large training set of TypeScript code
   without switching to SQL.
1. **Less Code for the Same Work** Since so much infrastructure and boiler plate
   is automatically manged by Convex there is less code to write, and thus less
   code to get wrong.
1. **Automatic Reactivity** The reactive system automatically tracks data
   dependencies and updates your UI. AI doesn't need to manually manage
   subscriptions, WebSocket connections, or complex state synchronization—Convex
   handles all of this automatically.
1. **Transactional Guarantees** Queries are read-only and mutations run in
   transactions. These constraints make it nearly impossible for AI to write
   code that could corrupt your data or leave your app in an inconsistent state.

Together, these features mean AI can focus on your business logic while Convex's
guarantees prevent common failure modes. For up-to-date information on which
models work best with Convex, check out our LLM
[leaderboard](https://convex.dev/llm-leaderboard).

## Convex AI rules

AI code generation is most effective when you provide it with a set of rules to
follow.

See these documents for install instructions:

- [Cursor](/ai/using-cursor.mdx#add-convex-cursorrules)
- [Windsurf](/ai/using-windsurf.mdx#add-convex-rules)
- [GitHub Copilot](/ai/using-github-copilot.mdx#add-convex-instructions)

For all other IDEs, add the following rules file to your project and refer to it
when prompting for changes:

- [convex_rules.txt](https://convex.link/convex_rules.txt)

We're constantly working on improving the quality of these rules for Convex by
using rigorous evals. You can help by
[contributing to our evals repo](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-evals).

## Convex MCP Server

[Setup the Convex MCP server](/ai/convex-mcp-server.mdx) to give your AI coding
agent access to your Convex deployment to query and optimize your project.

Commit message:

Fix agent mode (#39000)
Make the experimental agent mode work when no anonymous dev deployments exist yet.

GitOrigin-RevId: 4b1aaf800de307bb7c4a558cf21c327c999ec2c1

npm-packages/docs/docs/ai.mdx, after:

---
title: AI Code Generation
hide_table_of_contents: true
description: "How to use AI code generation effectively with Convex"
---

<CardLink
  className="convex-hero-card"
  item={{
    href: "https://chef.convex.dev",
    label: "Prompt to build an app with Convex Chef",
  }}
/>

Convex is designed around a small set of composable abstractions with strong
guarantees that result in code that is not only faster to write, but easier to
read and maintain, whether written by a team member or an LLM. Key features make
sure you get bug-free AI generated code:

1. **Queries are Just TypeScript** Your database queries are pure TypeScript
   functions with end-to-end type safety and IDE support. This means AI can
   generate database code using the large training set of TypeScript code
   without switching to SQL.
1. **Less Code for the Same Work** Since so much infrastructure and boiler plate
   is automatically manged by Convex there is less code to write, and thus less
   code to get wrong.
1. **Automatic Reactivity** The reactive system automatically tracks data
   dependencies and updates your UI. AI doesn't need to manually manage
   subscriptions, WebSocket connections, or complex state synchronization—Convex
   handles all of this automatically.
1. **Transactional Guarantees** Queries are read-only and mutations run in
   transactions. These constraints make it nearly impossible for AI to write
   code that could corrupt your data or leave your app in an inconsistent state.

Together, these features mean AI can focus on your business logic while Convex's
guarantees prevent common failure modes. For up-to-date information on which
models work best with Convex, check out our LLM
[leaderboard](https://convex.dev/llm-leaderboard).

## Convex AI rules

AI code generation is most effective when you provide it with a set of rules to
follow.

See these documents for install instructions:

- [Cursor](/ai/using-cursor.mdx#add-convex-cursorrules)
- [Windsurf](/ai/using-windsurf.mdx#add-convex-rules)
- [GitHub Copilot](/ai/using-github-copilot.mdx#add-convex-instructions)

For all other IDEs, add the following rules file to your project and refer to it
when prompting for changes:

- [convex_rules.txt](https://convex.link/convex_rules.txt)

We're constantly working on improving the quality of these rules for Convex by
using rigorous evals. You can help by
[contributing to our evals repo](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-evals).

## Using Convex with Background Agents

Remote cloud-based coding agents like Jules, Devin, Codex, and Cursor background
agents can use Convex deployments when the CLI is in
[Agent Mode](/docs/cli/background-agents.mdx). This limits the permissions
necessary for these remote dev environments while letting agents run codegen,
iterate on code, run tests, run one-off functions.

A good setup script for e.g. ChatGPT Codex might include

```
npm i
CONVEX_AGENT_MODE=anonymous npx convex dev --once
```

or

```
bun i
CONVEX_AGENT_MODE=anonymous bun x convex dev --once
```

This command requires "full" internet access to download the binary.

## Convex MCP Server

[Setup the Convex MCP server](/ai/convex-mcp-server.mdx) to give your AI coding
agent access to your Convex deployment to query and optimize your project.
