npm-packages/docs/docs/auth.mdx, before:

---
title: Authentication
sidebar_position: 30
description: Add authentication to your Convex app.
hide_table_of_contents: true
pagination_prev: file-storage
---

Authentication allows you to identify users and restrict what data they can see
and edit.

Convex is compatible with most authentication providers because it uses OpenID
Connect (based on OAuth) ID tokens in the form of JWTs to authenticate WebSocket
connections or RPCs. These JWTs can be provided by any service implementing the
appropriate OAuth endpoints to verify them, including your own Convex backend.

## Third-party authentication platforms

Leveraging a Convex integration with a third-party auth provider provides the
most comprehensive authentication solutions. Integrating another service
provides a ton of functionality like passkeys, two-factor auth, spam protection,
and more on top of the authentication basics.

- [Clerk](/auth/clerk.mdx) is newer and has better Next.js and React Native
  support
- [Auth0](/auth/auth0.mdx) is more established with more bells and whistles
- [Custom Auth Integration](/auth/advanced/custom-auth.mdx) allow any OpenID
  Connect-compatible identity provider to be used for authentication

After you integrate one of these, learn more about accessing authentication
information in [Functions](/auth/functions-auth.mdx) and storing user
information in the [Database](/auth/database-auth.mdx).

## Convex Auth

For client-side React and React Native mobile apps you can implement auth
directly in Convex with the [Convex Auth](/auth/convex-auth.mdx) library. This
[npm package](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-auth) runs on your Convex
deployment and helps you build a custom sign-up/sign-in flow via social identity
providers, one-time email or SMS access codes, or via passwords.

Convex Auth is in beta (it isn't complete and may change in
backward-incompatible ways) and doesn't provide as many features as third party
auth integrations. Since it doesn't require signing up for another service it's
the quickest way to get auth up and running.

<BetaAdmonition feature="Convex Auth" verb="is" />

Support for Next.js is under active development. If you'd like to help test this
experimental support please [give it a try](https://labs.convex.dev/auth)!

## Debugging

If you run into issues consult the [Debugging](/auth/debug.mdx) guide.

## Service Authentication

Servers you control or third party services can call Convex functions but may
not be able to obtain OpenID JWTs and often do not represent the actions of a
specific user.

Say you're running some inference on a [Modal](https://modal.com/) server
written in Python. When that server subscribes to a Convex query it doesn't do
so with credentials of a particular end-user, rather it's looking for relevant
tasks for any users that need that inference task, say summarizing and
translating a conversation, completed.

To provide access to Convex queries, mutations, and actions to an external
service you can write public functions accessible to the internet that check a
shared secret, for example from an environment variable, before doing anything
else.

## Authorization

Convex enables a traditional three tier application structure. You have your
client/UI for your app, and a backend server that handles user requests, and a
database that the backend queries. This architecture let's you check every
public request against any authorization rules you can define in code.

Thus Convex does not need an opinionated authorization framework like RLS, which
is required in client oriented databases like Firebase or Supabase. This
flexibility lets you build and use an
[authorization framework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authorization) for your
needs.

That said, the most common way is to simply write code that checks if the user
is logged in and if they are allowed to do the requested action at the beginning
of your public function.

For example, the following function enforces that only the currently
authenticated user can remove their own user image:

```typescript
export const removeUserImage = mutation({
  args: {},
  handler: async (ctx) => {
    // highlight-next-line
    const userId = await getAuthUserId(ctx);
    // highlight-next-line
    if (!userId) {
      // highlight-next-line
      return;
      // highlight-next-line
    }
    ctx.db.patch(userId, { imageId: undefined, image: undefined });
  },
});
```

<StackPosts query="authentication" />

Commit message:

Add WorkOS to suggested Convex authentication options (#39498)
Add WorkOS to docs and create a new `@convex-dev/workos` package for token-fetching logic.

GitOrigin-RevId: e1fedbacc7dff5bc11736bea0213d131c7101354

npm-packages/docs/docs/auth.mdx, after:

---
title: Authentication
sidebar_position: 30
description: Add authentication to your Convex app.
hide_table_of_contents: true
pagination_prev: file-storage
---

Convex deployment endpoints are exposed to the open internet and the claims
clients make about who they are must be authenticated to identify users and
restrict what data they can see and edit.

Convex is compatible with most authentication providers because it uses OpenID
Connect (based on OAuth) ID tokens in the form of JWTs to authenticate WebSocket
connections or RPCs. These JWTs can be provided by any service (including your
own Convex backend) that implement the appropriate OAuth endpoints to verify
them.

## Third-party authentication platforms

Leveraging a Convex integration with a third-party auth provider provides the
most comprehensive authentication solutions. Integrating another service
provides a ton of functionality like passkeys, two-factor auth, spam protection,
and more on top of the authentication basics.

- [Clerk](/auth/clerk.mdx) is new and has great Next.js and React Native support
- [WorkOS AuthKit](/auth/authkit.mdx) is new and free for up to 1M users
- [Auth0](/auth/auth0.mdx) is more established with more bells and whistles
- [Custom Auth Integration](/auth/advanced/custom-auth.mdx) allow any OpenID
  Connect-compatible identity provider to be used for authentication

After you integrate one of these, learn more about accessing authentication
information in [Functions](/auth/functions-auth.mdx) and storing user
information in the [Database](/auth/database-auth.mdx).

## The Convex Auth Library

For client-side React and React Native mobile apps you can implement auth
directly in Convex with the [Convex Auth](/auth/convex-auth.mdx) library. This
[npm package](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-auth) runs on your Convex
deployment and helps you build a custom sign-up/sign-in flow via social identity
providers, one-time email or SMS access codes, or via passwords.

Convex Auth is in beta (it isn't complete and may change in
backward-incompatible ways) and doesn't provide as many features as third party
auth integrations. Since it doesn't require signing up for another service it's
the quickest way to get auth up and running.

<BetaAdmonition feature="Convex Auth" verb="is" />

Support for Next.js is under active development. If you'd like to help test this
experimental support please [give it a try](https://labs.convex.dev/auth)!

## Debugging

If you run into issues consult the [Debugging](/auth/debug.mdx) guide.

## Service Authentication

Servers you control or third party services can call Convex functions but may
not be able to obtain OpenID JWTs and often do not represent the actions of a
specific user.

Say you're running some inference on a [Modal](https://modal.com/) server
written in Python. When that server subscribes to a Convex query it doesn't do
so with credentials of a particular end-user, rather it's looking for relevant
tasks for any users that need that inference task, say summarizing and
translating a conversation, completed.

To provide access to Convex queries, mutations, and actions to an external
service you can write public functions accessible to the internet that check a
shared secret, for example from an environment variable, before doing anything
else.

## Authorization

Convex enables a traditional three tier application structure: a client/UI for
your app, a backend that handles user requests, and a database for queries. This
architecture lets you check every public request against any authorization rules
you can define in code.

This means Convex doesn't need an opinionated authorization framework like RLS,
which is required in client oriented databases like Firebase or Supabase. This
flexibility lets you build and use an
[authorization framework](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Authorization) for your
needs.

That said, the most common way is to simply write code that checks if the user
is logged in and if they are allowed to do the requested action at the beginning
of each public function.

For example, the following function enforces that only the currently
authenticated user can remove their own user image:

```typescript
export const removeUserImage = mutation({
  args: {},
  handler: async (ctx) => {
    // highlight-next-line
    const userId = await getAuthUserId(ctx);
    // highlight-next-line
    if (!userId) {
      // highlight-next-line
      return;
      // highlight-next-line
    }
    ctx.db.patch(userId, { imageId: undefined, image: undefined });
  },
});
```

<StackPosts query="authentication" />
