npm-packages/docs/docs/client/vue.md, before:

---
title: "Vue"
sidebar_position: 250
description: "Community-maintained Vue integration for Convex applications"
---

The community-maintained
[`@convex-vue/core` npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@convex-vue/core)
provides deep integration of Convex with the Vue ecosystem.

See the [Vue Quickstart](/quickstart/vue.mdx) to get started or the
[convex-vue GitHub page](https://github.com/Darialyphia/convex-vue/tree/master/packages/convex-vue)
for more documentation.

<Admonition type="info">

The [`@convex-vue/core` library](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@convex-vue/core)
is community-maintained. Thank you to the maintainer
[Daria](https://github.com/Darialyphia) for his work on this project!

You're welcome to ask questions about the library on the
[Convex Discord](https://convex.dev/community) but opening a
[convex-vue GitHub](https://github.com/Darialyphia/convex-vue/tree/master/packages/convex-vue)
issue is a better way to request a new feature or report a bug.

</Admonition>

Commit message:

convex-backend PR 125: feat: nuxt quickstart docs (#40265)
Adds quickstart and client library documentation for the [Nuxt Integration](https://github.com/chris-visser/convex-nuxt/tree/main).

Hoping to give it more visibility!

----

By submitting this pull request, I confirm that you can use, modify, copy, and redistribute this contribution, under the terms of your choice.

Co-authored-by: Jayde Boardman <jayde.boardman@autorfp.ai>
GitOrigin-RevId: 34b8400809affff4cd5c8a911a527b4a184039b7

npm-packages/docs/docs/client/vue.md, after:

---
title: "Vue"
sidebar_position: 250
description: "Community-maintained Vue integration for Convex applications"
---

[Vue](https://vuejs.org/) is an "approachable, performant and versatile
framework for building web user interfaces."

The community-maintained
[`convex-vue`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/convex-vue) npm package is a Vue.js
integration library for Convex. It also powers [convex-nuxt](./vue/nuxt.md).

See the [Vue Quickstart](/quickstart/vue.mdx) to get started or the
[convex-vue GitHub page](https://github.com/chris-visser/convex-vue) for more
documentation.

<Admonition type="info">

The [`convex-vue` library](https://github.com/chris-visser/convex-vue) is
community-maintained. Thank you to the maintainer
[Chris Visser](https://github.com/chris-visser) for his work on this project!

You're welcome to ask questions about the library on the
[Convex Discord](https://convex.dev/community) but opening a
[convex-vue GitHub](https://github.com/chris-visser/convex-vue) issue is a
better way to request a new feature or report a bug.

</Admonition>
