npm-packages/docs/docs/agents/debugging.mdx, before:

---
title: Debugging
sidebar_label: "Debugging"
sidebar_position: 1100
description: "Debugging the Agent component"
---

Generally the [Playground](./playground.mdx) gives a lot of information about
what's happening, but when that is insufficient, you have other options.

## Logging the raw request and response from LLM calls

You can provide a `rawRequestResponseHandler` to the agent to log the raw
request and response from the LLM.

You could use this to log the request and response to a table, or use console
logs with
[Log Streaming](https://docs.convex.dev/production/integrations/log-streams/) to
allow debugging and searching through Axiom or another logging service.

```ts
const supportAgent = new Agent(components.agent, {
  ...
  rawRequestResponseHandler: async (ctx, { request, response }) => {
    console.log("request", request);
    console.log("response", response);
  },
});
```

## Inspecting the database in the dashboard

You can go to the Data tab in the dashboard and select the agent component above
the table list to see the Agent data. The organization of the tables matches the
[schema](https://github.com/get-convex/agent/blob/main/src/component/schema.ts).
The most useful tables are:

- `threads` has one row per thread
- `messages` has a separate row for each ModelMessage - e.g. a user message,
  assistant tool call, tool result, assistant message, etc. The most important
  fields are `agentName` for which agent it's associated with, `status`, `order`
  and `stepOrder` which are used to order the messages, and `message` which is
  roughly what is passed to the LLM.
- `streamingMessages` has an entry for each streamed message, until it's cleaned
  up. You can take the ID to look at the associated `streamDeltas` table.
- `files` captures the files tracked by the Agent from content that was sent in
  a message that got stored in File Storage.

## Troubleshooting

### Circular dependencies

Having the return value of workflows depend on other Convex functions can lead
to circular dependencies due to the `internal.foo.bar` way of specifying
functions. The way to fix this is to explicitly type the return value of the
workflow. When in doubt, add return types to more `handler` functions, like
this:

```ts
export const supportAgentWorkflow = workflow.define({
  args: { prompt: v.string(), userId: v.string(), threadId: v.string() },
  // highlight-next-line
  handler: async (step, { prompt, userId, threadId }): Promise<string> => {
    // ...
  },
});

// And regular functions too:
export const myFunction = action({
  args: { prompt: v.string() },
  // highlight-next-line
  handler: async (ctx, { prompt }): Promise<string> => {
    // ...
  },
});
```

Commit message:

Ian/agent docs (#41161)
Update the Agent component docs and make the doc syncing more general for future component documentation

GitOrigin-RevId: 5675d0f6df93c78777fdc06273b2a1e68ac1bf58

npm-packages/docs/docs/agents/debugging.mdx, after:

---
title: Debugging
sidebar_label: "Debugging"
sidebar_position: 1100
description: "Debugging the Agent component"
---

## Debugging in the Playground

Generally the [Playground](./playground.mdx) gives a lot of information about
what's happening, but when that is insufficient, you have other options.

## Logging the raw request and response from LLM calls

You can provide a `rawRequestResponseHandler` to the agent to log the raw
request and response from the LLM.

You could use this to log the request and response to a table, or use console
logs with
[Log Streaming](https://docs.convex.dev/production/integrations/log-streams/) to
allow debugging and searching through Axiom or another logging service.

```ts
const supportAgent = new Agent(components.agent, {
  ...
  rawRequestResponseHandler: async (ctx, { request, response }) => {
    console.log("request", request);
    console.log("response", response);
  },
});
```

## Logging the context messages via the contextHandler

You can log the context messages via the contextHandler, if you're curious what
exactly the LLM is receiving.

```ts
const supportAgent = new Agent(components.agent, {
  ...
  contextHandler: async (ctx, { allMessages }) => {
    console.log("context", allMessages);
    return allMessages;
  },
});
```

## Inspecting the database in the dashboard

You can go to the Data tab in the dashboard and select the agent component above
the table list to see the Agent data. The organization of the tables matches the
[schema](https://github.com/get-convex/agent/blob/main/src/component/schema.ts).
The most useful tables are:

- `threads` has one row per thread
- `messages` has a separate row for each ModelMessage - e.g. a user message,
  assistant tool call, tool result, assistant message, etc. The most important
  fields are `agentName` for which agent it's associated with, `status`, `order`
  and `stepOrder` which are used to order the messages, and `message` which is
  roughly what is passed to the LLM.
- `streamingMessages` has an entry for each streamed message, until it's cleaned
  up. You can take the ID to look at the associated `streamDeltas` table.
- `files` captures the files tracked by the Agent from content that was sent in
  a message that got stored in File Storage.

## Troubleshooting

### Type errors on `components.agent`

If you get type errors about `components.agent`, ensure you've run
`npx convex dev` to generate code for the component. The types expected by the
library are in the npm library, and the types for `components.agent` currently
come from generated code in your project (via `npx convex dev`).

### Circular dependencies

Having the return value of workflows depend on other Convex functions can lead
to circular dependencies due to the `internal.foo.bar` way of specifying
functions. The way to fix this is to explicitly type the return value of the
workflow. When in doubt, add return types to more `handler` functions, like
this:

```ts
export const supportAgentWorkflow = workflow.define({
  args: { prompt: v.string(), userId: v.string(), threadId: v.string() },
  // highlight-next-line
  handler: async (step, { prompt, userId, threadId }): Promise<string> => {
    // ...
  },
});

// And regular functions too:
export const myFunction = action({
  args: { prompt: v.string() },
  // highlight-next-line
  handler: async (ctx, { prompt }): Promise<string> => {
    // ...
  },
});
```
