npm-packages/docs/docs/search/vector-search.mdx, before:

---
title: "Vector Search"
sidebar_position: 100
description: "Run vector search queries on embeddings"
slug: "vector-search"
---

import Schema from "!!raw-loader!@site/../demos/vector-search/convex/schema.ts";
import VectorSearchSnippets from "!!raw-loader!@site/../private-demos/snippets/convex/vectorSearch.ts";
import Foods from "!!raw-loader!@site/../private-demos/snippets/convex/foods.ts";
import VectorSearchSnippets2 from "!!raw-loader!@site/../private-demos/snippets/convex/vectorSearch2.ts";
import Movies from "!!raw-loader!@site/../demos/vector-search/convex/movies.ts";

Vector search allows you to find Convex documents similar to a provided vector.
Typically, vectors will be embeddings which are numerical representations of
text, images, or audio.

Embeddings and vector search enable you to provide useful context to LLMs for AI
powered applications, recommendations for similar content and more.

Vector search is consistent and fully up-to-date. You can write a vector and
immediately read it from a vector search. Unlike
[full text search](/search.mdx), however, vector search is only available in
[Convex actions](/functions/actions.mdx).

**Example:**
[Vector Search App](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-demos/tree/main/vector-search)

To use vector search you need to:

1. Define a vector index.
1. Run a vector search from within an [action](/functions/actions.mdx).

## Defining vector indexes

Like [database indexes](/database/reading-data/indexes/indexes.md), vector
indexes are a data structure that is built in advance to enable efficient
querying. Vector indexes are defined as part of your Convex
[schema](/database/schemas.mdx).

To add a vector index onto a table, use the
[`vectorIndex`](/api/classes/server.TableDefinition#vectorindex) method on your
table's schema. Every vector index has a unique name and a definition with:

1. `vectorField` string
   - The name of the field indexed for vector search.
1. `dimensions` number
   - The fixed size of the vectors index. If you're using embeddings, this
     dimension should match the size of your embeddings (e.g. `1536` for
     OpenAI).
1. [Optional] `filterFields` array
   - The names of additional fields that are indexed for fast filtering within
     your vector index.

For example, if you want an index that can search for similar foods within a
given cuisine, your table definition could look like:

<Snippet
  source={Schema}
  title="convex/schema.ts"
  snippet="schemaOneTable"
  highlightPatterns={["vectorIndex"]}
/>

You can specify vector and filter fields on nested documents by using a
dot-separated path like `properties.name`.

## Running vector searches

Unlike database queries or full text search, vector searches can only be
performed in a [Convex action](/functions/actions.mdx).

They generally involve three steps:

1. Generate a vector from provided input (e.g. using OpenAI)
1. Use
   [`ctx.vectorSearch`](/api/interfaces/server.GenericActionCtx#vectorsearch) to
   fetch the IDs of similar documents
1. Load the desired information for the documents

Here's an example of the first two steps for searching for similar French foods
based on a description:

<TSAndJSSnippet
  sourceTS={VectorSearchSnippets}
  sourceJS={VectorSearchSnippets}
  title="convex/foods.ts"
  snippet="vectorSearchQuery"
  highlightPatterns={["vectorSearch"]}
/>

An example of the first step can be found
[here](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-demos/blob/main/vector-search/convex/foods.ts#L18)
in the vector search demo app.

Focusing on the second step, the `vectorSearch` API takes in the table name, the
index name, and finally a
[`VectorSearchQuery`](/api/interfaces/server.VectorSearchQuery) object
describing the search. This object has the following fields:

1. `vector` array
   - An array of numbers (e.g. embedding) to use in the search.
   - The search will return the document IDs of the documents with the most
     similar stored vectors.
   - It must have the same length as the `dimensions` of the index.
2. [Optional] `limit` number
   - The number of results to get back. If specified, this value must be between
     1 and 256.
3. [Optional] `filter`
   - An expression that restricts the set of results based on the `filterFields`
     in the `vectorIndex` in your schema. See
     [Filter expressions](#filter-expressions) for details.

It returns an `Array` of objects containing exactly two fields:

1. `_id`
   - The [Document ID](https://docs.convex.dev/database/document-ids) for the
     matching document in the table
2. `_score`
   - An indicator of how similar the result is to the vector you were searching
     for, ranging from -1 (least similar) to 1 (most similar)

Neither the underlying document nor the vector are included in `results`, so
once you have the list of results, you will want to load the desired information
about the results.

There are a few strategies for loading this information documented in the
[Advanced Patterns](#advanced-patterns) section.

For now, let's load the documents and return them from the action. To do so,
we'll pass the list of results to a Convex query and run it inside of our
action, returning the result:

<TSAndJSSnippet
  sourceTS={Foods}
  sourceJS={Foods}
  title="convex/foods.ts"
  snippet="fetchResults"
/>

<TSAndJSSnippet
  sourceTS={VectorSearchSnippets2}
  sourceJS={VectorSearchSnippets2}
  title="convex/foods.ts"
  snippet="fetchResults"
/>

### Filter expressions

As mentioned above, vector searches support efficiently filtering results by
additional fields on your document using either exact equality on a single
field, or an `OR` of expressions.

For example, here's a filter for foods with cuisine exactly equal to "French":

<Snippet source={VectorSearchSnippets} snippet="filterSingleValue" />

You can also filter documents by a single field that contains several different
values using an `or` expression. Here's a filter for French or Indonesian
dishes:

<Snippet source={VectorSearchSnippets} snippet="filterMultipleValues" />

For indexes with multiple filter fields, you can also use `.or()` filters on
different fields. Here's a filter for dishes whose cuisine is French or whose
main ingredient is butter:

<Snippet source={VectorSearchSnippets} snippet="filterMultipleFields" />

**Both `cuisine` and `mainIngredient` would need to be included in the
`filterFields` in the `.vectorIndex` definition.**

### Other filtering

Results can be filtered based on how similar they are to the provided vector
using the `_score` field in your action:

```ts
const results = await ctx.vectorSearch("foods", "by_embedding", {
  vector: embedding,
});
const filteredResults = results.filter((result) => result._score >= 0.9);
```

Additional filtering can always be done by passing the vector search results to
a query or mutation function that loads the documents and performs filtering
using any of the fields on the document.

**For performance, always put as many of your filters as possible into
`.vectorSearch`.**

### Ordering

Vector queries always return results in relevance order.

Currently Convex searches vectors using an
[approximate nearest neighbor search](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nearest_neighbor_search#Approximate_nearest_neighbor)
based on [cosine similarity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosine_similarity).
Support for more similarity metrics
[will come in the future](#future-development).

If multiple documents have the same score, ties are broken by the document ID.

## Advanced patterns

### Using a separate table to store vectors

There are two main options for setting up a vector index:

1. Storing vectors in the same table as other metadata
1. Storing vectors in a separate table, with a reference

The examples above show the first option, which is simpler and works well for
reading small amounts of documents. The second option is more complex, but
better supports reading or returning large amounts of documents.

Since vectors are typically large and not useful beyond performing vector
searches, it's nice to avoid loading them from the database when reading other
data (e.g. `db.get()`) or returning them from functions by storing them in a
separate table.

A table definition for movies, and a vector index supporting search for similar
movies filtering by genre would look like this:

<Snippet source={Schema} title="convex/schema.ts" snippet="schemaTwoTables" />

Generating an embedding and running a vector search are the same as using a
single table. Loading the relevant documents given the vector search result is
different since we have an ID for `movieEmbeddings` but want to load a `movies`
document. We can do this using the `by_embedding` database index on the `movies`
table:

<TSAndJSSnippet
  sourceTS={VectorSearchSnippets}
  sourceJS={VectorSearchSnippets}
  title="convex/movies.ts"
  snippet="fetchMovies"
  highlightPatterns={["withIndex"]}
/>

### Fetching results and adding new documents

Returning information from a vector search involves an action (since vector
search is only available in actions) and a query or mutation to load the data.

The example above used a query to load data and return it from an action. Since
this is an action, the data returned is not reactive. An alternative would be to
return the results of the vector search in the action, and have a separate query
that reactively loads the data. The search results will not update reactively,
but the data about each result would be reactive.

The
[Vector Search Demo App](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-demos/tree/main/vector-search)
uses this strategy to show similar movies with a reactive "Votes" count.

## Limits

Convex supports millions of vectors today. This is an ongoing project and we
will continue to scale this offering out with the rest of Convex.

Vector indexes must have:

- Exactly 1 vector index field.
  - The field must be of type `v.array(v.float64())` (or a union in which one of
    the possible types is `v.array(v.float64())`)
- Exactly 1 dimension field with a value between 2 and 4096.
- Up to 16 filter fields.

Vector indexes count towards the
[limit of 32 indexes per table](/database/reading-data/indexes/indexes.md#limits).
In addition you can have up to 4 vector indexes per table.

Vector searches can have:

- Exactly 1 vector to search by in the `vector` field
- Up to 64 filter expressions
- Up to 256 requested results (defaulting to 10).

If your action performs a vector search then passes the results to a query or
mutation function, you may find that one or more results from the vector search
have been deleted or mutated. Because vector search is only available in
actions, you cannot perform additional transactional queries or mutations based
on the results. If this is important for your use case, please
[let us know on Discord](https://convex.dev/community)!

Only documents that contain a vector of the size and in the field specified by a
vector index will be included in the index and returned by the vector search.

For information on limits, see [here](/production/state/limits.mdx).

## Future development

We're always open to customer feedback and requests. Some ideas we've considered
for improving vector search in Convex include:

- More sophisticated filters and filter syntax
- Filtering by score in the `vectorSearch` API
- Better support for generating embeddings

If any of these features is important for your app,
[let us know on Discord](https://convex.dev/community)!

Commit message:

Add documentation for staged indexes. (#40198)
GitOrigin-RevId: 5b08829a08a11b68ef48fa84e79b30526110d64b

npm-packages/docs/docs/search/vector-search.mdx, after:

---
title: "Vector Search"
sidebar_position: 100
description: "Run vector search queries on embeddings"
slug: "vector-search"
---

import Schema from "!!raw-loader!@site/../demos/vector-search/convex/schema.ts";
import VectorSearchSnippets from "!!raw-loader!@site/../private-demos/snippets/convex/vectorSearch.ts";
import Foods from "!!raw-loader!@site/../private-demos/snippets/convex/foods.ts";
import VectorSearchSnippets2 from "!!raw-loader!@site/../private-demos/snippets/convex/vectorSearch2.ts";
import Movies from "!!raw-loader!@site/../demos/vector-search/convex/movies.ts";

Vector search allows you to find Convex documents similar to a provided vector.
Typically, vectors will be embeddings which are numerical representations of
text, images, or audio.

Embeddings and vector search enable you to provide useful context to LLMs for AI
powered applications, recommendations for similar content and more.

Vector search is consistent and fully up-to-date. You can write a vector and
immediately read it from a vector search. Unlike
[full text search](/search.mdx), however, vector search is only available in
[Convex actions](/functions/actions.mdx).

**Example:**
[Vector Search App](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-demos/tree/main/vector-search)

To use vector search you need to:

1. Define a vector index.
1. Run a vector search from within an [action](/functions/actions.mdx).

## Defining vector indexes

Like [database indexes](/database/reading-data/indexes/indexes.md), vector
indexes are a data structure that is built in advance to enable efficient
querying. Vector indexes are defined as part of your Convex
[schema](/database/schemas.mdx).

To add a vector index onto a table, use the
[`vectorIndex`](/api/classes/server.TableDefinition#vectorindex) method on your
table's schema. Every vector index has a unique name and a definition with:

1. `vectorField` string
   - The name of the field indexed for vector search.
2. `dimensions` number
   - The fixed size of the vectors index. If you're using embeddings, this
     dimension should match the size of your embeddings (e.g. `1536` for
     OpenAI).
3. [Optional] `filterFields` array
   - The names of additional fields that are indexed for fast filtering within
     your vector index.
4. [Optional] `staged` boolean
   - If set to `true`, the index will be backfilled asynchronously from the
     deploy similar to
     [staged database indexes](/database/reading-data/indexes#staged-indexes).
     This is useful for large tables where the index backfill time is
     significant. Defaults to `false`.

For example, if you want an index that can search for similar foods within a
given cuisine, your table definition could look like:

<Snippet
  source={Schema}
  title="convex/schema.ts"
  snippet="schemaOneTable"
  highlightPatterns={["vectorIndex"]}
/>

You can specify vector and filter fields on nested documents by using a
dot-separated path like `properties.name`.

## Running vector searches

Unlike database queries or full text search, vector searches can only be
performed in a [Convex action](/functions/actions.mdx).

They generally involve three steps:

1. Generate a vector from provided input (e.g. using OpenAI)
1. Use
   [`ctx.vectorSearch`](/api/interfaces/server.GenericActionCtx#vectorsearch) to
   fetch the IDs of similar documents
1. Load the desired information for the documents

Here's an example of the first two steps for searching for similar French foods
based on a description:

<TSAndJSSnippet
  sourceTS={VectorSearchSnippets}
  sourceJS={VectorSearchSnippets}
  title="convex/foods.ts"
  snippet="vectorSearchQuery"
  highlightPatterns={["vectorSearch"]}
/>

An example of the first step can be found
[here](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-demos/blob/main/vector-search/convex/foods.ts#L18)
in the vector search demo app.

Focusing on the second step, the `vectorSearch` API takes in the table name, the
index name, and finally a
[`VectorSearchQuery`](/api/interfaces/server.VectorSearchQuery) object
describing the search. This object has the following fields:

1. `vector` array
   - An array of numbers (e.g. embedding) to use in the search.
   - The search will return the document IDs of the documents with the most
     similar stored vectors.
   - It must have the same length as the `dimensions` of the index.
2. [Optional] `limit` number
   - The number of results to get back. If specified, this value must be between
     1 and 256.
3. [Optional] `filter`
   - An expression that restricts the set of results based on the `filterFields`
     in the `vectorIndex` in your schema. See
     [Filter expressions](#filter-expressions) for details.

It returns an `Array` of objects containing exactly two fields:

1. `_id`
   - The [Document ID](https://docs.convex.dev/database/document-ids) for the
     matching document in the table
2. `_score`
   - An indicator of how similar the result is to the vector you were searching
     for, ranging from -1 (least similar) to 1 (most similar)

Neither the underlying document nor the vector are included in `results`, so
once you have the list of results, you will want to load the desired information
about the results.

There are a few strategies for loading this information documented in the
[Advanced Patterns](#advanced-patterns) section.

For now, let's load the documents and return them from the action. To do so,
we'll pass the list of results to a Convex query and run it inside of our
action, returning the result:

<TSAndJSSnippet
  sourceTS={Foods}
  sourceJS={Foods}
  title="convex/foods.ts"
  snippet="fetchResults"
/>

<TSAndJSSnippet
  sourceTS={VectorSearchSnippets2}
  sourceJS={VectorSearchSnippets2}
  title="convex/foods.ts"
  snippet="fetchResults"
/>

### Filter expressions

As mentioned above, vector searches support efficiently filtering results by
additional fields on your document using either exact equality on a single
field, or an `OR` of expressions.

For example, here's a filter for foods with cuisine exactly equal to "French":

<Snippet source={VectorSearchSnippets} snippet="filterSingleValue" />

You can also filter documents by a single field that contains several different
values using an `or` expression. Here's a filter for French or Indonesian
dishes:

<Snippet source={VectorSearchSnippets} snippet="filterMultipleValues" />

For indexes with multiple filter fields, you can also use `.or()` filters on
different fields. Here's a filter for dishes whose cuisine is French or whose
main ingredient is butter:

<Snippet source={VectorSearchSnippets} snippet="filterMultipleFields" />

**Both `cuisine` and `mainIngredient` would need to be included in the
`filterFields` in the `.vectorIndex` definition.**

### Other filtering

Results can be filtered based on how similar they are to the provided vector
using the `_score` field in your action:

```ts
const results = await ctx.vectorSearch("foods", "by_embedding", {
  vector: embedding,
});
const filteredResults = results.filter((result) => result._score >= 0.9);
```

Additional filtering can always be done by passing the vector search results to
a query or mutation function that loads the documents and performs filtering
using any of the fields on the document.

**For performance, always put as many of your filters as possible into
`.vectorSearch`.**

### Ordering

Vector queries always return results in relevance order.

Currently Convex searches vectors using an
[approximate nearest neighbor search](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nearest_neighbor_search#Approximate_nearest_neighbor)
based on [cosine similarity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cosine_similarity).
Support for more similarity metrics
[will come in the future](#future-development).

If multiple documents have the same score, ties are broken by the document ID.

## Advanced patterns

### Using a separate table to store vectors

There are two main options for setting up a vector index:

1. Storing vectors in the same table as other metadata
1. Storing vectors in a separate table, with a reference

The examples above show the first option, which is simpler and works well for
reading small amounts of documents. The second option is more complex, but
better supports reading or returning large amounts of documents.

Since vectors are typically large and not useful beyond performing vector
searches, it's nice to avoid loading them from the database when reading other
data (e.g. `db.get()`) or returning them from functions by storing them in a
separate table.

A table definition for movies, and a vector index supporting search for similar
movies filtering by genre would look like this:

<Snippet source={Schema} title="convex/schema.ts" snippet="schemaTwoTables" />

Generating an embedding and running a vector search are the same as using a
single table. Loading the relevant documents given the vector search result is
different since we have an ID for `movieEmbeddings` but want to load a `movies`
document. We can do this using the `by_embedding` database index on the `movies`
table:

<TSAndJSSnippet
  sourceTS={VectorSearchSnippets}
  sourceJS={VectorSearchSnippets}
  title="convex/movies.ts"
  snippet="fetchMovies"
  highlightPatterns={["withIndex"]}
/>

### Fetching results and adding new documents

Returning information from a vector search involves an action (since vector
search is only available in actions) and a query or mutation to load the data.

The example above used a query to load data and return it from an action. Since
this is an action, the data returned is not reactive. An alternative would be to
return the results of the vector search in the action, and have a separate query
that reactively loads the data. The search results will not update reactively,
but the data about each result would be reactive.

The
[Vector Search Demo App](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-demos/tree/main/vector-search)
uses this strategy to show similar movies with a reactive "Votes" count.

## Limits

Convex supports millions of vectors today. This is an ongoing project and we
will continue to scale this offering out with the rest of Convex.

Vector indexes must have:

- Exactly 1 vector index field.
  - The field must be of type `v.array(v.float64())` (or a union in which one of
    the possible types is `v.array(v.float64())`)
- Exactly 1 dimension field with a value between 2 and 4096.
- Up to 16 filter fields.

Vector indexes count towards the
[limit of 32 indexes per table](/database/reading-data/indexes/indexes.md#limits).
In addition you can have up to 4 vector indexes per table.

Vector searches can have:

- Exactly 1 vector to search by in the `vector` field
- Up to 64 filter expressions
- Up to 256 requested results (defaulting to 10).

If your action performs a vector search then passes the results to a query or
mutation function, you may find that one or more results from the vector search
have been deleted or mutated. Because vector search is only available in
actions, you cannot perform additional transactional queries or mutations based
on the results. If this is important for your use case, please
[let us know on Discord](https://convex.dev/community)!

Only documents that contain a vector of the size and in the field specified by a
vector index will be included in the index and returned by the vector search.

For information on limits, see [here](/production/state/limits.mdx).

## Future development

We're always open to customer feedback and requests. Some ideas we've considered
for improving vector search in Convex include:

- More sophisticated filters and filter syntax
- Filtering by score in the `vectorSearch` API
- Better support for generating embeddings

If any of these features is important for your app,
[let us know on Discord](https://convex.dev/community)!
