---
title: "Status and Guarantees"
id: "state"
sidebar_position: 1
---

Please [contact us](mailto:support@convex.dev) with any specific requirements or
if you want to build a project on Convex that is not yet satisfied by our
guarantees.

## Guarantees

The official Convex Terms of Service, Privacy Policy and Customer Agreements are
[outlined in our official terms](https://www.convex.dev/legal/tos). We do not
yet have contractual agreements beyond what is listed in our official terms and
the discussions within this document don't constitute an amendment to these
terms.

Convex is always under continual development and future releases may require
code changes in order to upgrade to a new version. Code developed on Convex 1.0
or later will continue to operate as-is. If we are required to make a breaking
change in future we will contact teams directly to provide substantial advance
notice.

All user data in Convex is encrypted at rest. Database state is replicated
durably across multiple physical availability zones. Regular periodic and
incremental database backups are performed and stored with 99.999999999% (11
9's) durability.

We target an availability of 99.99% (4 9's) for Convex deployments although
these may experience downtime for maintenance without notice. A physical outage
may affect availability of a deployment but will not affect durability of the
data stored in Convex.

## Limits

For information on limits, see [here](/docs/production/state/limits.mdx).

## Beta Features

Features tagged with **beta** in these docs are still in development. They can
be used in production but their APIs might change in the future, requiring
additional effort when upgrading to a new version of the Convex NPM package and
other Convex client libraries.

## Future Features

Convex is still under very active development and here we list some of the
missing functionality on our radar. We'd love to hear more about your
requirements in the [Convex Discord Community](https://convex.dev/community).

### Authorization

Convex currently has an [_authentication framework_](/docs/auth.mdx) which
verifies user identities. In the future we plan to add an _authorization
framework_ which will allow developers to define what data a user can access.

For now, you can implement manual authorization checks within your queries and
mutations, but stay tuned for a more comprehensive, fool-proof solution in the
future.

### Telemetry

Currently, the dashboard provides only basic metrics. Serious sites at scale are
going to need to integrate our logs and metrics into more fully fledged
observability systems that categorize them and empower things like alerting.

Convex will eventually have methods to publish deployment data in formats that
can be ingested by third parties.

### Analytics / OLAP

Convex is designed to primarily service all your app's realtime implementation
(OLTP) needs. It is less suited to be a good solution for the kinds of complex
queries and huge table scans that are necessary to address the requirements of
analytics (OLAP) use cases.

Convex exposes
[Fivetran and Airbyte connectors](/docs/production/integrations/streaming-import-export.md)
to export Convex data to external analytics systems.

### Browser support

Convex does not yet have an official browser support policy, but we strive to
support most modern browsers with significant
[usage](https://caniuse.com/usage-table).
