self-hosted/SELFHOSTING.md, before:

<p align="center">
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://static-http.s3.amazonaws.com/logo/convex-logo-light.svg" width="600">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://static-http.s3.amazonaws.com/logo/convex-logo.svg" width="600">
  <img alt="Convex logo" src="https://static-http.s3.amazonaws.com/logo/convex-logo.svg" width="600">
</picture>
</p>

** [Convex managed hosted product](https://www.convex.dev/plans).** The hosted
product includes a generous free tier and provides a seamless, reliable,
cost-effective platform that allows you to focus on building your application
without worrying about infrastructure.

That being said, we understand that won't work for everyone. You are welcome to
self-host Convex on your own infrastructure instead.

Community support is available for self-hosted Convex in the `#open-source`
channel in the [Convex Discord](https://discord.gg/convex).

Development of the Convex backend is led by the Convex team. We
[welcome bug fixes](./CONTRIBUTING.md) and
[love receiving feedback](https://discord.gg/convex). We keep this repository
synced with any internal development work within a handful of days.

# Self Hosting Via Docker [recommended]

Select a name for your instance. In the cloud product, this takes the form of
something like "flying-fox-123". You can select whatever you want here. A good
practice would be to pick something that matches the domain you host from,
though it is not critical.

You'll need to have [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) installed to run
convex in Docker.

```sh
cd self-hosted
# Pull the latest docker images
docker compose pull
# Run the containers
docker compose up
```

Once your Convex backend is running in Docker, you can ask it to generate admin
keys for use from the dashboard/CLI.

```sh
docker exec convex-local-backend ./generate_admin_key.sh
```

Visit the dashboard at `http://localhost:6791`. Using your admin key, push code
to your backend. Admin key should be kept secure to just the developers who are
administering the application on your backend.

```sh
cd your_project
npm install
npx convex dev --admin-key 'flying-fox-123|01c046ab1512d9306a6abda3eedec5dfe862f1fe0f66a5aee774fb9ae3fda87706facaf682b9d4f9209a05e038cbd6e9b8' --url "http://127.0.0.1:3210"
```

# Self Hosting Via Running Binary Directly

### Get convex-local-backend Binary

You can either [build from source](../README.md) or use the precompiled
binaries. You can download the latest precompiled binary release from
[Releases](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-backend/releases). If your
platform is not supported, leave us a github issue. In the meantime, you can
build from source.

_Note: On MacOS you might need to hold the `option` key and double click the
binary file in Finder once, to circumvent the
[Gatekeeper](https://support.apple.com/en-us/102445) warning._

### Generate a new instance secret

Instance secret is the secret to the backend. Keep very safe and only accessible
from the backend itself. Generate a new random instance secret with

```sh
cargo run -p keybroker --bin generate_secret
```

It will look like this:
`4361726e697461732c206c69746572616c6c79206d65616e696e6720226c6974`

### Generate a new admin key

With the instance name and instance secret, generate an admin key. Admin key is
required to push code to the backend and take other administrator operations.

```sh
cargo run -p keybroker --bin generate_key -- flying-fox-123 4361726e697461732c206c69746572616c6c79206d65616e696e6720226c6974
```

It will look like
`flying-fox-123|01c046ab1512d9306a6abda3eedec5dfe862f1fe0f66a5aee774fb9ae3fda87706facaf682b9d4f9209a05e038cbd6e9b8`

### Run your backend instance

Adjust the path based on where you downloaded the binary to or add it to your
`PATH`. The backend will store its database in the current-working-directory
(not where the binary file lives).

Use the instance name and instance secret to start your backend.

```sh
./convex-local-backend --instance-name flying-fox-123 --instance-secret 4361726e697461732c206c69746572616c6c79206d65616e696e6720226c6974
```

You can run `./convex-local-backend --help` to see other options for things like
changing ports, convex origin url, convex site url, local storage directories
and other configuration.

### Run the dashboard

You can run the dashboard locally with `just rush install` and `npm run dev`
from `npm-packages/dashboard-common`.

### Use your backend.

Using your admin key, push code to your backend. Admin key should be kept secure
to just the developers who are administering the application on your backend.

```sh
cd your_project
npm install
npx convex dev --admin-key 'flying-fox-123|01c046ab1512d9306a6abda3eedec5dfe862f1fe0f66a5aee774fb9ae3fda87706facaf682b9d4f9209a05e038cbd6e9b8' --url "http://127.0.0.1:3210"
```

# Upgrading your self-hosted backend on a production instance.

In order to safely migrate to a new version of self-hosted, there are two
options.

## Option 1: Export/Import your database (higher downtime + easy, recommended)

1. Take down external traffic to your backend
2. Export your database with `npx convex export`
3. Save your environment variables with `npx convex env list` (or via
   dashboard).
4. Upgrade the backend docker image (or binary)
5. Import from your backup with `npx convex import --replace-all`
6. Bring back your environment variables with `npx convex env set` (or via
   dashboard)
7. Bring back external traffic to your backend

Given that exports/imports can be expensive if you have a lot of data, this can
incur downtime. You can get a sense of how much downtime safely, by running an
export while your self-hosted instance is up. For smaller instances, this may be
quick and easy.

However to safely avoid losing data, it's important that the final export is
done after load is stopped from your instance, since exports are taken at a
snapshot in time.

## Option 2: Upgrade in-place (lower downtime)

This is a more manual, more fiddly process, but it incurs less downtime. If you
choose to go this route, please be careful, and feel free to reach out for
guidance.

You will need to upgrade through each intermediate binary revision specified via
`git log crates/model/src/migrations.rs`.

Each upgrade will incur a small amount of downtime, but the underlying database
will be upgraded in-place while your app still functions. You need to allow the
backend to run at each intermediate revision until it is ready.

Look for loglines like this - and follow those instructions to complete the
in-place upgrade. Each migration will let you know which logline to wait for to
determine that the in-place upgrade is complete.

```
Executing Migration 114/115. MigrationComplete(115)
```

Please feel free to reach out to us on [Discord](https://convex.dev/community)
if you have any questions.

Commit message:

update self-hosting instructions to use .env.local (#34053)
suggest writing to a .env.local file so you don't need to pass flags.

note `npx convex dev` and friends already work. we'll switch to `npx convex self-host dev` and friends after that lands, but they're not different in behavior -- they just have nicer `--help` output.

GitOrigin-RevId: 9b65ba4f923eee93b7bc904972bb852bb1587567

self-hosted/SELFHOSTING.md, after:

<p align="center">
<picture>
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://static-http.s3.amazonaws.com/logo/convex-logo-light.svg" width="600">
  <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://static-http.s3.amazonaws.com/logo/convex-logo.svg" width="600">
  <img alt="Convex logo" src="https://static-http.s3.amazonaws.com/logo/convex-logo.svg" width="600">
</picture>
</p>

** [Convex managed hosted product](https://www.convex.dev/plans).** The hosted
product includes a generous free tier and provides a seamless, reliable,
cost-effective platform that allows you to focus on building your application
without worrying about infrastructure.

That being said, we understand that won't work for everyone. You are welcome to
self-host Convex on your own infrastructure instead.

Community support is available for self-hosted Convex in the `#open-source`
channel in the [Convex Discord](https://discord.gg/convex).

Development of the Convex backend is led by the Convex team. We
[welcome bug fixes](./CONTRIBUTING.md) and
[love receiving feedback](https://discord.gg/convex). We keep this repository
synced with any internal development work within a handful of days.

# Self Hosting Via Docker [recommended]

Select a name for your instance. In the cloud product, this takes the form of
something like "flying-fox-123". You can select whatever you want here. A good
practice would be to pick something that matches the domain you host from,
though it is not critical.

You'll need to have [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/) installed to run
convex in Docker.

```sh
cd self-hosted
# Pull the latest docker images
docker compose pull
# Run the containers
docker compose up
```

Once your Convex backend is running in Docker, you can ask it to generate admin
keys for use from the dashboard/CLI.

```sh
docker exec convex-local-backend ./generate_admin_key.sh
```

Visit the dashboard at `http://localhost:6791`. Using your admin key, push code
to your backend. Admin key should be kept secure to just the developers who are
administering the application on your backend.

In your Convex project, add your url and admin key to a `.env.local` file (which
should not be committed to source control):

```sh
CONVEX_SELF_HOST_DEPLOYMENT_URL='http://127.0.0.1:3210'
CONVEX_DEPLOY_KEY='<your deploy key>'
```

Now you can run commands in your Convex project, to push code, run queries,
import data, etc.

```sh
npx convex dev
npx convex run <run args>
npx convex import <import args>
```

# Self Hosting Via Running Binary Directly

### Get convex-local-backend Binary

You can either [build from source](../README.md) or use the precompiled
binaries. You can download the latest precompiled binary release from
[Releases](https://github.com/get-convex/convex-backend/releases). If your
platform is not supported, leave us a github issue. In the meantime, you can
build from source.

_Note: On MacOS you might need to hold the `option` key and double click the
binary file in Finder once, to circumvent the
[Gatekeeper](https://support.apple.com/en-us/102445) warning._

### Generate a new instance secret

Instance secret is the secret to the backend. Keep very safe and only accessible
from the backend itself. Generate a new random instance secret with

```sh
cargo run -p keybroker --bin generate_secret
```

It will look like this:
`4361726e697461732c206c69746572616c6c79206d65616e696e6720226c6974`

### Generate a new admin key

With the instance name and instance secret, generate an admin key. Admin key is
required to push code to the backend and take other administrator operations.

```sh
cargo run -p keybroker --bin generate_key -- flying-fox-123 4361726e697461732c206c69746572616c6c79206d65616e696e6720226c6974
```

It will look like
`flying-fox-123|01c046ab1512d9306a6abda3eedec5dfe862f1fe0f66a5aee774fb9ae3fda87706facaf682b9d4f9209a05e038cbd6e9b8`

### Run your backend instance

Adjust the path based on where you downloaded the binary to or add it to your
`PATH`. The backend will store its database in the current-working-directory
(not where the binary file lives).

Use the instance name and instance secret to start your backend.

```sh
./convex-local-backend --instance-name flying-fox-123 --instance-secret 4361726e697461732c206c69746572616c6c79206d65616e696e6720226c6974
```

You can run `./convex-local-backend --help` to see other options for things like
changing ports, convex origin url, convex site url, local storage directories
and other configuration.

### Run the dashboard

You can run the dashboard locally with `just rush install` and `npm run dev`
from `npm-packages/dashboard-self-hosted`.

### Use your backend.

Using your admin key, push code to your backend. Admin key should be kept secure
to just the developers who are administering the application on your backend.

```sh
cd your_project
npm install
npx convex dev --admin-key 'flying-fox-123|01c046ab1512d9306a6abda3eedec5dfe862f1fe0f66a5aee774fb9ae3fda87706facaf682b9d4f9209a05e038cbd6e9b8' --url "http://127.0.0.1:3210"
```

# Upgrading your self-hosted backend on a production instance.

In order to safely migrate to a new version of self-hosted, there are two
options.

## Option 1: Export/Import your database (higher downtime + easy, recommended)

1. Take down external traffic to your backend
2. Export your database with `npx convex export`
3. Save your environment variables with `npx convex env list` (or via
   dashboard).
4. Upgrade the backend docker image (or binary)
5. Import from your backup with `npx convex import --replace-all`
6. Bring back your environment variables with `npx convex env set` (or via
   dashboard)
7. Bring back external traffic to your backend

Given that exports/imports can be expensive if you have a lot of data, this can
incur downtime. You can get a sense of how much downtime safely, by running an
export while your self-hosted instance is up. For smaller instances, this may be
quick and easy.

However to safely avoid losing data, it's important that the final export is
done after load is stopped from your instance, since exports are taken at a
snapshot in time.

## Option 2: Upgrade in-place (lower downtime)

This is a more manual, more fiddly process, but it incurs less downtime. If you
choose to go this route, please be careful, and feel free to reach out for
guidance.

You will need to upgrade through each intermediate binary revision specified via
`git log crates/model/src/migrations.rs`.

Each upgrade will incur a small amount of downtime, but the underlying database
will be upgraded in-place while your app still functions. You need to allow the
backend to run at each intermediate revision until it is ready.

Look for loglines like this - and follow those instructions to complete the
in-place upgrade. Each migration will let you know which logline to wait for to
determine that the in-place upgrade is complete.

```
Executing Migration 114/115. MigrationComplete(115)
```

Please feel free to reach out to us on [Discord](https://convex.dev/community)
if you have any questions.
