npm-packages/docs/docs/platform-apis/embedded-dashboard.mdx, before:

---
title: Embedding the dashboard
sidebar_position: 20
---

Convex provides a hosted dashboard that is embeddable via iframe. Embedding the
dashboard is useful for developers building AI app generators, like
[Convex Chef](https://chef.convex.dev).

You can embed the Convex dashboard by adding an `<iframe>` to
https://dashboard-embedded.convex.dev. Normally, the embedded dashboard requires
the user to enter credentials to use it, but you may skip the login step by
providing deployment credentials via a
[`postMessage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage)
to the iframe.

When using `postMessage`, there may be a delay until the credentials are
received. The default login page will be shown until credentials are received,
so we recommend adding a delay before displaying the rendered iframe to avoid
flashing a login screen.

<Admonition type="caution" title="This will share your credentials client-side">
  When using `postMessage` to authenticate with the embedded dashboard, your
  deployment key will be shared with the end-user. Only do this when sharing
  credentials with the user is safe, such as with an [OAuth
  Application](/platform-apis/oauth-applications).
</Admonition>

Required information for `postMessage`:

- `deploymentUrl`: The deployment cloud URL. Returned when creating the project
  with the [Create project API](/management-api/create-project)
- `deploymentName`: The readable identifier for the deployment. Returned when
  creating the project with the
  [Create project API](/management-api/create-project).
- `adminKey`: A deploy key scoped to the specified `deploymentName`.

Here's an example of the Convex dashboard embedded in a React application:

```tsx
import { useEffect, useRef } from "react";

export function Dashboard({
  deploymentUrl,
  deploymentName,
  deployKey,
}: {
  deploymentUrl: string;
  deploymentName: string;
  deployKey: string;
}) {
  const iframeRef = useRef<HTMLIFrameElement>(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    const handleMessage = (event: MessageEvent) => {
      // We first wait for the iframe to send a dashboard-credentials-request message.
      // This makes sure that we don’t send the credentials until the iframe is ready.
      if (event.data?.type !== "dashboard-credentials-request") {
        return;
      }
      iframeRef.current?.contentWindow?.postMessage(
        {
          type: "dashboard-credentials",
          adminKey: deployKey,
          deploymentUrl,
          deploymentName,
        },
        "*",
      );
    };

    window.addEventListener("message", handleMessage);
    return () => window.removeEventListener("message", handleMessage);
  }, [deploymentUrl, adminKey, deploymentName]);

  return (
    <iframe
      ref={iframeRef}
      // You can also default on other pages, for instance /functions, /files or /logs
      src="https://dashboard-embedded.convex.dev/data"
      allow="clipboard-write"
    />
  );
}
```

Commit message:

Restore platform create_deploy_key endpoint (#39909)
GitOrigin-RevId: dec9b715fac12b20738519470f3f2524a958a512

npm-packages/docs/docs/platform-apis/embedded-dashboard.mdx, after:

---
title: Embedding the dashboard
sidebar_position: 20
---

Convex provides a hosted dashboard that is embeddable via iframe. Embedding the
dashboard is useful for developers building AI app generators, like
[Convex Chef](https://chef.convex.dev).

You can embed the Convex dashboard by adding an `<iframe>` to
https://dashboard-embedded.convex.dev. Normally, the embedded dashboard requires
the user to enter credentials to use it, but you may skip the login step by
providing deployment credentials via a
[`postMessage`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/postMessage)
to the iframe.

When using `postMessage`, there may be a delay until the credentials are
received. The default login page will be shown until credentials are received,
so we recommend adding a delay before displaying the rendered iframe to avoid
flashing a login screen.

<Admonition type="caution" title="This will share your credentials client-side">
  When using `postMessage` to authenticate with the embedded dashboard, your
  deployment key will be shared with the end-user. Only do this when sharing
  credentials with the user is safe, such as with an [OAuth
  Application](/platform-apis/oauth-applications).
</Admonition>

Required information for `postMessage`:

- `deploymentUrl`: The deployment cloud URL. Returned when creating the project
  with the [Create project API](/management-api/create-project)
- `deploymentName`: The readable identifier for the deployment. Returned when
  creating the project with the
  [Create project API](/management-api/create-project).
- `adminKey`: A deploy key scoped to the specified `deploymentName`. Can be
  retrieved with the [Create deploy key API](/management-api/create-deploy-key).

Here's an example of the Convex dashboard embedded in a React application:

```tsx
import { useEffect, useRef } from "react";

export function Dashboard({
  deploymentUrl,
  deploymentName,
  deployKey,
}: {
  deploymentUrl: string;
  deploymentName: string;
  deployKey: string;
}) {
  const iframeRef = useRef<HTMLIFrameElement>(null);

  useEffect(() => {
    const handleMessage = (event: MessageEvent) => {
      // We first wait for the iframe to send a dashboard-credentials-request message.
      // This makes sure that we don’t send the credentials until the iframe is ready.
      if (event.data?.type !== "dashboard-credentials-request") {
        return;
      }
      iframeRef.current?.contentWindow?.postMessage(
        {
          type: "dashboard-credentials",
          adminKey: deployKey,
          deploymentUrl,
          deploymentName,
        },
        "*",
      );
    };

    window.addEventListener("message", handleMessage);
    return () => window.removeEventListener("message", handleMessage);
  }, [deploymentUrl, adminKey, deploymentName]);

  return (
    <iframe
      ref={iframeRef}
      // You can also default on other pages, for instance /functions, /files or /logs
      src="https://dashboard-embedded.convex.dev/data"
      allow="clipboard-write"
    />
  );
}
```
